packages/widget/README.md, before:

This explains how to integrate the bridge widget into your dApp in just a few minutes. This widget enables users to bridge tokens directly on your site, utilizing the Synapse Protocol.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/dark.png" alt="Dark Theme" width="400"/>

Live version of the widget:

/_ link to landing page to come _/

Example use cases include:

- Building a custom frontend for the Synapse Protocol
- Bridging assets in a DeFi application
- Acquiring a token to participate in a web3 game

This guide shows how to customize the widget to seamlessly blend with your app's theme by altering colors, fonts, and the token list. Learn to make the widget appear as an integral part of your application.

## Installation

The widget is available on npm or yarn.

npm:

```bash
npm install @synapsecns/widget
```

yarn:

```bash
yarn add @synapsecns/widget
```

Note: The widget's `peerDependencies` require the consumer app to use `react` and `react-dom` (`>=17.0.1`)

## Installation

To get started, import the `Widget` React component into your App. You will need a `web3Provider` parameter to pass to the widget. The demo landing page app, for example, defines this provider from the `ethers` library. However, the component supports any similar provider:

```tsx
import { Bridge } from ‘@synapsecns/widget’

const MyApp = () => {
  const web3Provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum)

  <Bridge
    web3Provider={web3Provider}
  />
}

```

Your site should now display a fully operational bridge widget integrating the routes and tokens supported by the Synapse protocol. By utilizing Synapse's multiple routers, you will be able to find the best quotes to support your bridging use case.

## Recommended Parameters

The bridge widget is a React component designed for straightforward integration into any React-based project. Engineered for immediate functionality, and apart from a `web3Provider`, it requires no initial parameters or web3 setup to begin operation. The widget facilitates bridging across all networks where the Synapse Protocol is active.

While the widget is primed for immediate use without configuration as it provides some basic primary and fallback JSON-RPC endpoints, we encourage developers to specify their own for enhancd performance. This can be done by including a `customRpcs` parameter in the format of an object with chain ids as keys and their associated RPC endpoints as values.

```tsx
import { Bridge, CustomRpcs } from ‘@synapsecns/widget’

const customRpcs: CustomRpcs =  {
  1: 'https://ethereum.my-custom-rpc.com',
  10: 'https://optimism.my-custom-rpc.com',
  42161: 'https://arbitrum.my-custom-rpc.com',
}

const MyApp = () => {
  const web3Provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum)

  <Bridge
    web3Provider={web3Provider}
    customRpcs={customRpcs}
  />
}
```

## Token and Chain Customization

To further tailor the bridge widget to meet the specific demands of your project, additional optional `targetTokens` and `targetChainIds` parameters are provided. These allow for customizing which chain and tokens your consuming application will support bridging to. This is effectively a way to filter for specific tokens on destination chain your application's users bridge.

```tsx
import { Bridge, CustomRpcs, ETH, USDC, USDT } from ‘@synapsecns/widget’

const MyApp = () => {
  const web3Provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum)

  <Bridge
    web3Provider={web3Provider}
    targetTokens={[ETH, USDC, USDT]}
    targetChainIds={[42161, 43114]}
  />
}
```

Note: Token naming convention is based on the tokens provided by `@synapsecns/widget`. For example, USDC on Metis is `METISUSDC` instead of simply `USDC`. The package's `src/constants/bridgeable.ts` file contains a detailed list of supported tokens and the chains they live on. Additionally, to see a detailed list of Synapse Protocol supported chains, please see `src/constants/chains.ts`.

## Theme Customization

The widget is designed to be easily customized to match your app's theme. The widget accepts an optional `customTheme` configurable `bgColor` parameter for `'dark'` and `'light'` modes:

```tsx
<Bridge web3Provider={web3Provider} customTheme={{ bgColor: 'light' }} />
```

Additionally, the widget supports more complex custom themes with the `customTheme` property. This allows for more fine-grained control over the widget's colors and fonts.

```tsx
const customTheme = {
  '--synapse-text': 'white',
  '--synapse-secondary': '#ffffffb3',
  '--synapse-root': '#16182e',
  '--synapse-surface': 'linear-gradient(90deg, #1e223de6, #262b47e6)',
  '--synapse-border': 'transparent',
  '--synapse-select-bg': 'hsl(231.5deg 32% 19.5%',
  '--synapse-select-border': 'hsl(233deg 34% 34%)',
  '--synapse-button-bg': '#2d42fc',
}

<Bridge
  web3Provider={web3Provider}
  customTheme={customTheme}
/>
```

Please see the `examples/landing-page` folder for more examples.

## Container Customization

The widget additionally supports a `container` property of `true` or `false` to adjust its width to the container it's in.

```tsx
<Bridge web3Provider={web3Provider} container={true} />
```

## Example Apps

Within the repository's `/examples` folder, there are three example apps. The `landing-page` folder contains a fully functional demo with customizations of the widget. The `with-react` and `with-next` folders contain a simple implementation of the widget using React and Next.js, respectively.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/dark.png" alt="Dark Theme" width="400"/>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/light.png" alt="Light Theme" width="400"/>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/blue.png" alt="Blue Theme" width="400"/>

Commit message:

Updates README with props and definitions

packages/widget/README.md, after:

This explains how to integrate the bridge widget into your dApp in just a few minutes. This widget enables users to bridge tokens directly on your site, utilizing the Synapse Protocol.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/dark.png" alt="Dark Theme" width="400"/>

Live version of the widget:

/_ link to landing page to come _/

Example use cases include:

- Building a custom frontend for the Synapse Protocol
- Bridging assets in a DeFi application
- Acquiring a token to participate in a web3 game

This guide shows how to customize the widget to seamlessly blend with your app's theme by altering colors, fonts, and the token list. Learn to make the widget appear as an integral part of your application.

## Installation

The widget is available on npm or yarn.

npm:

```bash
npm install @synapsecns/widget
```

yarn:

```bash
yarn add @synapsecns/widget
```

Note: The widget's `peerDependencies` require the consumer app to use `react` and `react-dom` (`>=17.0.1`)

## Installation

To get started, import the `Widget` React component into your App. You will need a `web3Provider` parameter to pass to the widget. The demo landing page app, for example, defines this provider from the `ethers` library. However, the component supports any similar provider:

```tsx
import { Bridge } from ‘@synapsecns/widget’

const MyApp = () => {
  const web3Provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum)

  <Bridge
    web3Provider={web3Provider}
  />
}

```

Your site should now display a fully operational bridge widget integrating the routes and tokens supported by the Synapse protocol. By utilizing Synapse's multiple routers, you will be able to find the best quotes to support your bridging use case.

## Bridge Widget Props

The widget accepts a number of props to customize its functionality and appearance. Below is a quick summary with more detailed explanations later on.

```
web3Provider: Web3Provider. Required.
customRpcs?: Custom JSON-RPC endpoints for your consumer application.
customTheme?: Custom theme for the widget. If not provided, defaults to light theme.
container?: HTML element to render the widget in. If not provided, false.
targetChainIds?: List of chain IDs for the destination side of your consumer app. If not provided, defaults to all Synapse Protocol supported networks.
targetTokens?: List of tokens to display in the widget. If not provided, defaults to all Synapse Protocol supported tokens.
protocolName?: A short name for users of the widget to identify the protocol. If not provided, defaults to 'Target'.
```

## Enhanced and Reliable Performance

The bridge widget is a React component designed for straightforward integration into any React-based project. Engineered for immediate functionality, and apart from a `web3Provider`, it requires no initial parameters or web3 setup to begin operation. The widget facilitates bridging across all networks where the Synapse Protocol is active.

While the widget is primed for immediate use without configuration as it provides some basic primary and fallback JSON-RPC endpoints, we encourage developers to specify their own for enhanced performance. This can be done by including a `customRpcs` parameter in the format of an object with chain ids as keys and their associated RPC endpoints as values.

```tsx
import { Bridge, CustomRpcs } from ‘@synapsecns/widget’

const customRpcs: CustomRpcs =  {
  1: 'https://ethereum.my-custom-rpc.com',
  10: 'https://optimism.my-custom-rpc.com',
  42161: 'https://arbitrum.my-custom-rpc.com',
}

const MyApp = () => {
  const web3Provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum)

  <Bridge
    web3Provider={web3Provider}
    customRpcs={customRpcs}
  />
}
```

## Token and Chain Customization

To further tailor the bridge widget to meet the specific demands of your project, additional optional `targetTokens` and `targetChainIds` parameters are provided. These allow for customizing which chain and tokens your consuming application will support bridging to. This is effectively a way to filter for specific tokens on destination chain your application's users bridge.

```tsx
import { Bridge, CustomRpcs, ETH, USDC, USDT } from ‘@synapsecns/widget’

const MyApp = () => {
  const web3Provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum)

  <Bridge
    web3Provider={web3Provider}
    targetTokens={[ETH, USDC, USDT]}
    targetChainIds={[42161, 43114]}
  />
}
```

Note: Token naming convention is based on the tokens provided by `@synapsecns/widget`. For example, USDC on Metis is `METISUSDC` instead of simply `USDC`. The package's `src/constants/bridgeable.ts` file contains a detailed list of supported tokens and the chains they live on. Additionally, to see a detailed list of Synapse Protocol supported chains, please see `src/constants/chains.ts`.

## Theme Customization

The widget is designed to be easily customized to match your app's theme. The widget accepts an optional `customTheme` configurable `bgColor` parameter for `'dark'` and `'light'` modes:

```tsx
<Bridge web3Provider={web3Provider} customTheme={{ bgColor: 'light' }} />
```

Additionally, the widget supports more complex custom themes with the `customTheme` property. This allows for more fine-grained control over the widget's colors and fonts.

```tsx
const customTheme = {
  '--synapse-text': 'white',
  '--synapse-secondary': '#ffffffb3',
  '--synapse-root': '#16182e',
  '--synapse-surface': 'linear-gradient(90deg, #1e223de6, #262b47e6)',
  '--synapse-border': 'transparent',
  '--synapse-select-bg': 'hsl(231.5deg 32% 19.5%',
  '--synapse-select-border': 'hsl(233deg 34% 34%)',
  '--synapse-button-bg': '#2d42fc',
}

<Bridge
  web3Provider={web3Provider}
  customTheme={customTheme}
/>
```

Please see the `examples/landing-page` folder for more examples.

## Container Customization

The widget additionally supports a `container` property of `true` or `false` to adjust its width to the container it's in.

```tsx
<Bridge web3Provider={web3Provider} container={true} />
```

## Example Apps

Within the repository's `/examples` folder, there are three example apps. The `landing-page` folder contains a fully functional demo with customizations of the widget. The `with-react` and `with-next` folders contain a simple implementation of the widget using React and Next.js, respectively.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/dark.png" alt="Dark Theme" width="400"/>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/light.png" alt="Light Theme" width="400"/>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/synapsecns/sanguine/master/packages/widget/images/blue.png" alt="Blue Theme" width="400"/>
